so what is it that's wrong with what mr.
Peterson has to say about Marxism well
it's partly that he's recycling old Cold
War stuff the Cold War was over in 1989
most of us have moved on around the
world mr. Peterson seems to be stuck it
is true that the Cold War ended in 1989
it's also true that many of the most
important and damning documents showing
what communists did how they did it and
why only became Declassified and
available to the public after 1989
during the Cold War it was very
difficult for anyone to know what lies
were made up by the CIA what lies were
made up by the Soviet Union what was
information and what was disinformation
many people who were themselves harsh
critics of communism during the Cold War
were astounded to discover only after
the Cold War was over that as terrible
as they thought communism had mean the
reality was much much worse
this happened partly due to archives
that were Declassified in the Soviet
Union and in communist China Congress
China has continued to be communist
piece by piece like archival evidence
and just research from the inside was
sort of smuggled out would published one
way or another very often by people who
themselves have been long-standing
members of the Communist Party but had
become disillusioned with it so yes the
Cold War is over but the level of
secrecy and disinformation means that in
the year 1989 it was very difficult for
anyone to know with certainty the types
of things I now know let me ask you a
question professor which side did the
United States fight on in Cambodia and
why the United States of America even
under President Ronald Reagan fought on
the pro-communist side supporting Pol
Pot many people refer to that as a
secret is not really secret but it's
something
very few people knew in 1989 the
American bombing of Laos a communist
country was likewise referred to as the
secret war
what exactly happened even if you're
just looking at atrocities committed by
the United States of America a country
that did have freedom of speech and
still does was very difficult to unravel
finding out what happened under Mao
Zedong in China during the worst periods
of mass murder and mass starvation
finding out what really happened under
Lenin and Stalin those things have
gotten easier since 1989 of course
partly due to the internet but partly
also due to changing political
conditions so now as never before it's
possible to know it's possible to learn
the lessons of that history for the
first time and that's why the whole
world is changing and that's why the
whole world is laughing and jeering at
you Marxists like never before and he's
stuck with one of the oldest kinds of
arguments imaginable telling us that we
should not be interested in Marxism in
fact it's kind of immoral in his words
to be interested in Marxism in view of
what Stalin did in Soviet Russia well ok
Stalin did terrible things in Soviet
Russia however Marxism exists in every
country in the face of the earth it's
been going on for 150 years and a lot
more than what happened in Russia under
Stalin over a period of 15 or 20 years
has to be taken into account if you're
going to make an assessment of Marxism
to use the one example that is really
horrible over there as the judgment on
Marxism would be about the same sense as
saying Christianity should be dismissed
because of the Catholic Inquisition or
the destruction of the Native American
population by Christians or the
Holocaust against Jews gays and so forth
by Christians in Germany and on and on
and on I'm not gonna laugh but I'm
tempted to respond to this satirically
of course the Catholic Church is
discredited because of what happened in
the Inquisition
course and of course it would be immoral
for anyone anyone today to make excuses
for justify or glorify those crimes
carried out by the Catholic Church of
course both the Catholic and Protestant
churches of various European countries
but notably the Anglican Church of
England were engaged in genocide acam
pains against native americans First
Nations indigenous people whatever term
you want to use and it would be deeply
disturbing and indeed evil for people to
say positive things in support of those
atrocities in support of attempted
genocide an actual genocide today now
you claim that Marxism is much larger
and much broader than merely what
happened under the dictatorship of
Joseph Stalin in the Soviet Union you
say it exists in countries all around
the world those are precisely the people
who made excuses for Joseph Stalin and
who still make excuses for Joseph Stalin
to this day those are the people who are
very much equivalent to Nazi Holocaust
deniers or to people who would still
very positively assert that there was
something good or right or justifiable
about the crimes of genocide carried out
by the Catholic Church in some cases by
the Protestant church by European
Christian churches in the colonization
of North America and South America the
so-called new world you say this as if
it were preposterous for someone like me
to strongly morally opposed and condemn
the Christian Church for its atrocities
in the past you say this as if it would
be absurd for people today to hold those
institutions those political
organizations legally and morally
accountable for the crimes they commit
in the past and to regard them as
stained and discredited
by the crimes they commit in the past
there's nothing absurd about that at all
in the same way that I regard the Nazi
Party as discredited by the crimes
committed by the Nazis by what
real-world consequences of their
ideology was of course I regard
Christian churches plural as discredited
by the historical record of Christianity
don't you and if not why not
moreover there is a question in each of
these instances of how clear a line can
be drawn from precept to practice how
clear a line can be drawn from what's
preached in principle by these parties
what's set down in their manifestos and
what happened when those principles were
put into practice the relationship
between atrocities committed by
Christopher Columbus and Spanish
imperialism is very direct the
relationship between Spanish imperialism
and the papal Authority of the Catholic
Church in Rome is very direct and the
Pope directly made judgments on
questions about the legalization of
slavery which forms of slavery were
legal and which were illegal questions
of genocide questions of what were then
human rights about whether or not
indigenous people of South America would
be recognized as human and his
descendants of Adam on this earth and so
on the political vocabulary it was very
different it was much more medieval but
nevertheless the Catholic Church was
very directly involved ideologically and
in a sense in making policy in shaping
the Spanish Empire in South America the
Catholic Church literally drew the
border between Brazil and the rest of
South America which was at that time the
border between the area that was going
to be colonized by the Portuguese and
the area that was colonized by the
Spanish they made fate
full decisions that had devastating
impacts on indigenous people in that
continent why would why would they not
be responsible why would we not judge
the Catholic Church but what had had
done in principle in practice and why
would we not describe someone as evil
who today is a member of a neo-nazi
party or today is a member of a catholic
revivalist party or what have you
someone who really claims that these
things are justifiable morally right and
good two world wars my capitalist
Christian countries fighting each other
may all qualify for the kinds of
arguments mr. Peterson makes we don't
make those kinds of arguments because
they make no sense and mr. Peters in
order to do that with Marxism what
remains implicit and unstated here is
the conceit that somehow Marxism does
not contain principles that directly
condone and call for violence and that
is false that is a lie the distinctive
definitive doctrines of Marxism include
class war and people say this phrase so
often that it starts to lose its meaning
class war is violence of a most terrible
kind and you really should take the time
to read some examples of what class war
means in practice of people going from
door to door house to house in their
neighborhood and murdering their
so-called class enemies in their sleep
of the Soviet Army going from town to
town and stealing farmers horses and
chickens and pigs and murdering farmers
deciding which of various
poverty-stricken farmers qualify as
middle class as opposed to absolutely
poverty-stricken even within China the
Communist Party deciding which tribal
groups in rural Yunnan
had achieved bourgeois status and which
were so so poor so backward still living
in Stone Age conditions that they would
be exempt from this type of class
analysis following the instructions of
Karl Marx the letter and the spirit of
exactly what Karl Marx said about the
development of society through a series
of stages and that some societies are so
primitive that they have no middle class
have no landlords etc the violence of
Marxism is not some kind of corruption
or aberration that crept into Marxism
it's something that's written out very
clearly in Karl Marx's work like the
Communist Manifesto it's something
that's written down very clearly in
principle in the works of all these
major leaders not just Stalin call Marx
Lenin Stalin Mao Zedong it's not
incidental it's not accidental
and it is true that you have a difficult
time drawing a straight line from a text
like the Gospel of Mark the New
Testament quotations from Jesus about
the meaning of life you have a difficult
time drawing a straight line from that
to atrocities committed in Nazi Germany
however if you actually start to fill in
the blanks you'll realize there are
other figures like Martin Luther there
are other stages along the way and the
line starts to get stronger and stronger
you start to understand how
institutionally culturally even
juridical illegally there were practices
that grew out of Christianity and where
the connection becomes stronger and
clearer to how fascism and anti-semitism
developed in Germany at that time again
Martin Luther being a major intellectual
source and a reformation of Christianity
in Germany especially and the single
most influential author on anti-semitism
of his millennium I suppose
I think it would be really phony and
insincere to say that there's a single
word in the American Constitution that
justifies or makes inevitable atrocities
committed by Americans in Vietnam and
they did commit atrocities the Americans
also committed atrocities in South Korea
in the Korean War but there is no
principle you're gonna find in the US
Constitution there's no principle in the
Canon of capitalism that explains that
so simply indirectly as Karl Marx's
principle of class war Karl Marx's
principle is that the progress of
history can be achieved through violence
and through extreme violence only of one
social class rising up and destroying
another that's a very clear very direct
doctrine that defines Marxism as
different from all forms of leftism
left-wing activist and whatever you'd
like to call it Marxists historically
who have existed all over the world took
up the position that you should not try
to incrementally improve capitalism that
you should not try to reform capitalism
that you should not try to help the
workers by giving them higher wages
better benefits by having unions make
deals that would improve their lives
through minimum wage reforms they would
not support what Bernie Sanders is now
doing Marxists by definition preached
the inevitable progress of history
through what's called materialist
dialectics a frankly crazy theory that
the only way societies make progress is
by exacerbating social class
distinctions exacerbating inequality
foment and creating an encouraging
hatred between social classes until one
social class rises up to tear down the
other that's textbook Marxism that's
Karl Marx's major contribution to the
intellectual development of politics in
Europe
it's very clearly and very split
explicitly the embrace of extreme
violence Karl Marx and Friedrich angles
they were the two guys who read the
history of the French Revolution I'm
here talking about the first French
Revolution they read the history of the
French Revolution and said it's not
violent enough it's not extreme enough
they didn't go far enough
they didn't chop off enough heads of a
nun for Esther crass they should have
taken this further they were the ones
who said it was wrong to try to take a
step backwards and create a Democratic
Parliament and be moderate and try to
have gradual process their analysis of
the French Revolution was that it need
to go further faster and have more mass
murder
yes I'm simplifying that these are major
elements and these are two men who
obsessed over the details of the history
of the French Revolution and their
analysis of their own time in Germany
France and England their analysis was
that it was completely fruitless to
bring it vote the types of social
democratic change that really did
improve life in those countries for
factory workers for the poor etc they
just wanted a violent revolution that's
who they were and that's what their
philosophy represented and the vast
majority of people in the mainstream
left looked at the legacy of Karl Marx
and Friedrich Engels during their
lifetimes and immediately after the
death and said no thanks our society has
problems and we can try to solve them by
making the alliterative positive change
by helping people working cooperatively
not by fomenting a violent revolution
and trying to tear the system down and
trying to vindicate dictatorship as
something better than democracy when it
merely clothes itself in the name the
dictatorship of the proletariat
[Music]